my opinion that bench clearings in baseball hurts the sport.  When I go to a game I go to watch baseball, not a group of people crowd together like penguins and yell at each other.  Only the manager, replacement players and team coaches should be allowed on the field during game play.  A hefty fine would be given to any player entering the field of play when not authorized(i.e. a fielder must remain in the dugout until the ump call the third out complete. Unless that player is in the batters spot, on deck or a runner.)


I'd be a little bit cautious of removing the self-policing elements out of the sport.  A bench clearing brawl is usually retaliation for a headhunting pitcher.  \n\nIf you come down hard on retaliation, you then have to come down hard on the instigation as well... and before you know it, the sport itself is radically different.\n\nJust look at the NBA.  The NBA, mostly after Jordan in the late 90's / early 00's, came down hard on player altercations.  This was for a variety of reasons mostly related to image / sportsmanship (and the racial double-standards put on mostly black players, but I digress) and to a lesser extent injuries.  \n\nThe occasional scuffles of the 80's / 90's became unheard of... and following that, the league came down hard on \"chippy\" fouls, and now they hand out double technicals any time anyone looks at anyone funny.  The end result is that reckless and sloppy charging to the basket, and relying on the superstar treatment to get to the free throw line has become the dominant strategy.  It was hard to watch any Dwane Wade championship without vomitting at what the league had become.\n\nHockey, OTOH, has had minor corrections to its tolerance of fighting - despite calls to ban it outright.  The hardcore fans, the players, everyone into the sport knows that it's mostly harmless (since they fight in pads) blowing off steam and happens less than many belief.  Removing it would lead to more dangerous forms of retaliation (cheap hits) OR force watering down the physicality of the game.  And the sport is better as a result.  Hockey's woes a few years ago were largely related to over-expansion... but the game is in a good place now.


Good points.  I would argue though that Hockey fights aren't harmless.  The number of concussions as a result of fights leads one to believe different.    Just look at Derek Boogaard.


 Major League Baseball has not only survived, but flourished for 145 years. I'm pretty sure that the occasional bench clearing brawl makes any difference whatsoever. 


They really actually help the sport.\n\nBaseball, to most people, is a snooze fest now. The occasional bench clearing brawl draws a lot of attention to the game, even if its only for a short period. 


 That doesn't mean they enjoyed watching baseball being played.\n\nTake what you can get! humans like action period, unless you are a hardcore fan, Baseball is one of the most boring sports to watch live. Due to the large amount of waiting involved.\n\nI dont know if it would help the sport, but its in no way hurting it.


Baseball is about assessment and execution (what is the pitcher thinking, what is the batsmen thinking?).  Bickering over who is a hardcore fan and who isn't, isn't a valid argument. I consider myself a \"hardcore\" fan but I know many people who are bigger fans than me."

